Good afternoon Nina,

 

Thank you for your interest in the Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology (BBMB) Ph.D. graduate programs in biochemistry and biophysics. The selection of a graduate program is an important decision, and we feel privileged to be included in your search.

 

Students who are likely to succeed in our graduate program score in the 60th percentile in all segments of the GRE and typically have a GPA of 3.0 or greater on a 4.0 scale.  That said we do not have minimum requirements and we look at every aspect of the application to base our decision. 

 

I have contacted several of our Chinese Biochemistry Graduate students for you to speak with and I will let you know once I hear back from them.

 

Attached please find the BBMB application to our graduate programs.  Please use the Checklist page of the application to complete, assemble, and track your materials.   Enclose all documents and all supporting materials (along with the checklist) in one envelope and mail it to the following address:

 

Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics, and Molecular Biology (BBMB)

Graduate Programs

1210 Molecular Biology Building

Iowa State University

Ames, IA  50011 USA

 

The BBMB application is a separate application from the ISU online application and is used as a screening tool for the BBMB graduate programs.  If you receive and accept an offer of admission from BBMB, we will then ask you to apply for formal admission to ISU online as a final step in the admissions process, and BBMB will pay your application fee.  If you apply for admission to ISU online before you receive and accept an offer of admission to BBMB, you will have to pay a non-refundable application fee.

 

For priority consideration, please submit your complete application by January 15, 2016.  All application materials must be received before your application will be reviewed by the graduate student selections committee.

 

Offers for fall 2016 admission begin the second week of March and continue to the last week of April, 2016.  All applicants receive final notification of their status by May 1, 2016.  Due to the high volume of materials received during the application review period, we are unable to respond to individual inquiries on the status of a possible offer of admission.

 

Please visit the BBMB graduate program website at http://bbmb.iastate.edu for general information about our programs and the application process.  Please contact us at bbmbapps@iastate.edu   if you have any questions as you develop your application.

 

Best wishes with your plans for advanced graduate study.

 

Justin Eason

Student Assistant ¨C Admissions

Roy J. Carver Department of Biochemistry, Biophysics and Molecular Biology

Iowa State University

1210 Molecular Biology Building

Ames, Iowa 50011

bbmbapps@iastate.edu