Thank you for your email. The admission standards of the department are high and the competition for financial support is keen. Thus, admission to the program and consideration for financial aid are given to only an extremely small number of applicants. Generally these are students who have graduated with first class or equivalent honors, are at the top of their classes, have a master¡¯s degree or an equivalent research accomplishment, and can provide evidence of fluency in English.

    

We use the results from both the General and Chemistry Subject tests of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) for evaluation of applicants. High scores on these examinations, in conjunction with substantial research experience, are normally required for serious consideration for admission into the chemistry program.

    

Requirements for admission to the Ph.D. Program in Chemistry are an undergraduate degree with at least 25 semester hours in chemistry (properly distributed) and a grade-point average of 3.0 (A=4.0). In addition, all of our students are expected to have a fluent command of the English language since teaching is a requirement in our Graduate Program. Any applicant whose native language is not English is required to provide TOEFL iBT or IELTS scores in order to receive full consideration for admission and financial aid. This English proficiency requirement can be met in one of two ways:

     1. Test of English as a Foreign Language internet-based test (TOEFL iBT)

               Average departmental TOEFL iBT total score: 105

               Minimum speaking section score: 24

     2. International English Language Testing System (IELTS)

               Minimum IELTS overall score: 7, with no sub-score less than 6

               Minimum speaking section score: 8     

 

TOEFL iBT and IELTS scores must be less than 2 years old from the first day of class at the proposed term of entry in order to be valid. 

    

We advise applicants to take the GRE General and Chemistry Subject tests and the TOEFL iBT or IELTS tests at the earliest possible date. The Chemistry Subject GRE, though optional, is highly recommended. Please arrange to have the scores sent directly to us (ETS institution code 1836 and program code 00). Information and application materials relating to the GRE and TOEFL iBT exams can be obtained from the Educational Testing Service at ets.org. For the most current information on the IELTS please see their website at ielts.org.

    

Applicants to our Ph.D. Program in Chemistry can apply online at grad.illinois.edu/admissions/apply/, submitting a completed on-line application, personal statement, resume, official transcripts of your grades (including an English translation), GRE General and Chemistry Subject test scores, three letters of reference, and TOEFL iBT or IELTS scores. A non-refundable fee of $90 US is charged by the University for processing applications. 

 

Our recommended application deadline for full consideration for the Fall 2016 semester is December 15, 2015.  However, we strongly encourage earlier submission of applications to maximize opportunities for fellowships.

    

We encourage you to browse our extensive website at chemistry.illinois.edu.  Thank you for your interest in our department; please contact the Chemistry Graduate Admissions Office if you have any questions.